Let's quickly review some real-world use cases of data schemas.
More than likely, you've already been using
data schemas without necessarily realizing it.
First, think about defining a SQL table in your favorite database like MySQL or Postgres.
When you declare a table, you always tell the database what
columns it should have and what the data types are for those columns.
In this example, I put a Postgres create table statement here,
and I'm creating a store location table that includes an ID of type integer,
a name and a city of type var char,
and a location latitude and longitude of type numeric.
We need to find a database table in a manner like this.
You're telling the database what data to expect,
what shape it will take,
and what the possible types of the accepted values are for each column.
This is a very common scenario of schema usage.
This is what you would end up with.
Outside of SQL databases,
if you've ever worked with tools such as Hadoop,
Hive or Presto, you've likely seen Apache Avro used to describe data.
For example, Presto can talk to many other data sources,
some are traditional databases like Postgres,
and others are simple Cloud-based key-value stores like Amazon's S3.
For Presto to allow users to run queries across these very different data sources,
it has to have some idea of what the data looks like.
Data engineers can write Avro schemas to tell Presto what to
expect when it fetches data from data sources like Amazon S3.
If the data is stored in the Avro format,
presto will know how to load the data and what data types to expect.
As you can see here, HIVE is talking to this data store which has
not just only data but also an average schema to go
along with it and then when that data is returned to Hive,
it not only gets the data,
it also receives the schema,
and it's then able to take that data and transform it into a usable payload.
Schemas are also used in traditional back-end development.
The container orchestration platform Kubernetes relies heavily on
a tool called gRPC to facilitate communication between components.
gRPC is a communication protocol built
on Google's protocol buffer schema definition language.
Using schemas has allowed Kubernetes to bright
a fast and scalable platform that can
easily integrate new functionality from third parties.
Any third-party application can communicate with Kubernetes using
these predefined schemas and expect for the system to work properly.
Simply put, Schemas play an important part in today's software ecosystem.
They can increase speed and clarity of expected data and help reduce mistakes and errors.